Thread Title: OFF CAMPUS HOUSING

Original Post by No-Comfortable-9520: Hey everyone, I’m an incoming grad student at University of Southern California and moving to Los Angeles soon from Queens NYC. I’m looking at a place near Walton Avenue and Wisconsin Pl and wanted to ask people who know the area: Is this block generally safe to live in? How is it during the day vs at night? Is it okay for walking to campus / nearby stores? Any issues with break-ins, car safety, or street activity? Would you recommend it for a new grad student? Coming from Queens, I’m used to city life and staying aware, but just wanted honest local opinions before signing anything. Appreciate any advice, thank you!

Comment by tiny-rabbit: Anything south of Expo and west of Vermont would not be my first, second, or third choice

Reply by No-Comfortable-9520 to tiny-rabbit: can you explain why?

Reply by Total_Opinion9205 to No-Comfortable-9520: for south of expo, high crime (lots of MS13 activity), no patrolling by police or usc security, few streetlights on at night, lots of break ins. i used to feel the same about west of vermont but found that if you stay on 36th or 37th place/streets , they are safe all the way to S Western Avenue . It does get a little rough if you're west of Vermont and near West Adams .

Reply by nightwind_hawk to tiny-rabbit: I agree. This area is very close to the Collesium and definitely improving, but it's not nearly as safe as the area directly north of campus. The area west of campus is also OK, though still north is my favorite.

Reply by Ry777im to tiny-rabbit: west if vermont isn’t nearly as bad at all. granted i live near the elementary school, but i’ve been near normandie, which is the western border of the dps zone, and its still not bad. it only really gets sketchy around 11-midnight. all the petty crime reported by dps happens east of campus anyway

Comment by LillyRoseBerryy: Omg coming from NY is so fun!! As a grad student here from Cali I hope you like it over here!

Reply by No-Comfortable-9520 to LillyRoseBerryy: Really excited lol east coast to the west gonna be a shock

Comment by Ok-Reaction-6748: I’m on 37th place a block away and paying pretty affordable, message me and I’ll send some options my friends have liked

Comment by juniorlee81: We have housing available on 35th st/Catalina A block away from USC

Comment by Pickle-Luvr-123: I would stay north of Expo and to the east of Vermont! The area north of campus is really nice and has lots of students, and it’s patrolled by DPS

Comment by 4GIFs: Fellow New Yorker here, you have nothing to worry about. West of campus is cheaper if you want to leverage your street smarts and save money

Comment by livingusc: If you’re still looking, I help manage a furnished student house in the North University Park area in the DPS and Free Lyft zone. Its very walkable, lots of students, and we have a great patio to study and hangout at. Email me at livingusc@gmail.com and I'll send all the details.
