Thread Title: best off campus housing options

Original Post by FierceDeity357: so its looking like i wont get housing for next semester (spring admit student). what are the best options i have for off campus housing?

Comment by RamenisGuud: I’m looking to sublease my room for the spring! It’s in a 2 bed 1 bath about a 5 min walk away from campus. Girls only though since my roommate is a girl. I’m paying 1.5k + utilities now but I’m definitely willing to negotiate. Let me know if you want any pictures/more info!

Comment by Ill_East8679: Looking to sublease my single room, that can also be a double/triple, from 12/15-7/31. It is an all girls house on Greek Row! Perks include: ﻿﻿- 5 minute walk from the USC Village and USC campus ﻿﻿- in unit washer and dryer ﻿﻿- cleaning service ﻿﻿- WiFi ﻿﻿- study rooms ﻿﻿- onsite gym ﻿﻿- within free lyft zone • ⁠assigned parking ﻿﻿- patio, TV room, large living and dining spaces, kitchen, mail room ﻿﻿- security cameras, coded locks

Reply by Logical-Brief5404 to Ill_East8679: Hey! Is the sublease still open? Check your Dms!

Comment by moshiman77: I’m looking into culver currently as a grad student, not much options for 1 bedroom/1bathroom private units for student housing so exploring a bit away. It’s definitely hard to find any furnished property the further away you go from campus also

Reply by Wise-Memory-9757 to moshiman77: I’m an older undergrad (25yo) and I moved to Silverlake/Westlake from Culver this summer. I grew up around there. You don’t wanna be west of the 405 it’s a lot of traffic. I recommend Echo Park/Los Feliz/Ktown for areas beyond University Park. I’m 25-30mins from campus it’s a nice balance of feeling connected to the city and not that far from school. Just my advice

Reply by moshiman77 to Wise-Memory-9757: The commute from Los Feliz is easy to get to campus? I won’t have a car for first semester probably

Reply by Glittering_Aioli6195 to Wise-Memory-9757: avoid Westlake

Comment by Playful_Recording990: DMed you! I’m looking for someone to sublease my apartment since I’m graduating in December!

Comment by Small-Wall-393: I have a room for sublet and I really need someone by January!

Reply by Logical-Brief5404 to Small-Wall-393: Is it too late to be interested?

Comment by Drishti_Sachdev07: I am looking for a lease transfer for my apartment for the spring semester. Are you still looking?

Comment by StandardSuspicious55: I have a spring 2026 sublease available. One fully furnished private bedroom in a 3 bedroom apartment, but I could also remove furniture. You’ll be sharing a bathroom with one other girl. The place is on 30th and super close to the village. Maybe like a 3 minute walk. Rent is $1100, and utilities are super low! PM me if you’re interested, and I can give you more details and keep you updated on exact dates!

Comment by ConsiderationGood622: Spring/Summer 2026 Sublease!! girls only Looking to sublease a private room in a 4 bedroom house on the west side of campus (near Taco Bell) this spring/summer from January - July (flexible w dates) private room full size bathroom (shared w one other person) fully furnished kitchen and living room $1050 rent/month ~$50 for utilities (varies per month) unfurnished 10 minute walk from campus in unit washer/dryer no cats/dogs allowed PM me if you or anyone you know is interested, and for more details!

Reply by Chemical_Beyond_1794 to ConsiderationGood622: Hi! Pls check ur dms, I’m interested:)

Reply by Logical-Brief5404 to ConsiderationGood622: Is the sublease still open or up for discussion? I'm interested!

Comment by Personal-Growth-4399: If ur interested, I’m subletting my place on the 2nd floor of the dka house (cinematic society) at 1006 w 23rd street. There r no parties tho there except for ones the ppl living in the house throw. It has a private bathroom and a walk in closet (which i put a rug and sound panels in for VO stuff) It comes w a mini fridge, tv and all the usual furniture. House also has Washer+dryer, printer, dishwasher, balcony, Parking for bikes and cars, and a beautiful backyard. I’m asking for 1400 a month but that can be negotiated. And I can give u more details/pics if u want!

Comment by cascalonginus2404: Try Www.rampartpm.com. I got a well priced 3 bedroom with friends for about 1100 per room

Comment by cl0udyskyy: if you want something easy or can't tour apartments i'd just do gateway tbh. otherwise there's a bunch of housing directly north and west of campus, people often talk about different management companies on here if you search for posts about housing

Reply by CivDefender to cl0udyskyy: I would disagree. Gateway is only halfway decent if you get a private room. The Hub is better imo

Comment by SeaworthinessQuiet73: The Hub Coliseum and Hub Figueroa are newer, secure and walking distance and very close to campus. Son lived there for 2 years and had a good experience. Much nicer than Gateway.

Reply by BathroomBorn6317 to SeaworthinessQuiet73: Hub coliseum is absolute trash and overpriced

Reply by SeaworthinessQuiet73 to BathroomBorn6317: It wasn’t when my son lived there for 2 years. He had a very nice apartment and never had issues. It was also a short walk to Marshall.

Comment by Taybrazier: Hey guys! I made a post about looking for a third roommate in a townhome in Noho -- for only $839/month you get your own private bedroom and bathroom. Check out my post and feel free to dm me!

Reply by Ready-Holiday-7844 to Taybrazier: Hey, I am interested

Comment by LRCNC: I had a student rent a room in my house this semester. $1,100.00 all utilities and internet included. 12 minutes to campus. Great experience! She is finishing up her semester and moving back home. It will be available the 20th. If interested, I can provide more info! I'm 33.

Comment by Relative-Till-1233: I'm an ECE student heading back home for the summer break, and I'm looking to sublet my room for 2 months. 📍 Location: 2927 1/2 S Catalina St, Los Angeles, CA 90007 (Safely within the USC DPS patrol zone !) 💰 **Rent:**$1,000 / month ( Price is negotiable / Or Best Offer! All utilities included) 📅 Dates: Early June to Late July (Exact dates flexible, DM to discuss) About the Place & Your Room: Fully Furnished (Move-in Ready): The bedroom comes completely set up with a bed, mattress, bedding, a study desk, and a desk chair. Shared Spaces: Full access to an equipped kitchen (fridge, microwave, stove) and a furnished living/dining area (sofa, coffee table, dining table, and chairs). Utilities Covered: Gas, water, electricity, trash, sewer, and high-speed internet are all included in the rent. House Rules: Clean, quiet, and responsible environment. No pets allowed. This is a completely hassle-free, highly convenient spot for anyone taking summer classes at USC or doing an internship in LA.

Comment by zb1wife: i’m looking to sublease my private bed private bath for $975/month!! the place is very clean, new and maintainence is great, i just decided to live with my bf. The whole place is 4b/4.5bth. If you like more info, I can provide the instagram post for the sublease!! Please let me know :)))

Comment by Grouchy_Addendum_735: Dm me. I have an amazing studio at a prime location in korea town for 1,660.

Comment by Historical-Net-7179: 🌟Spring and Summer SubLease Alert Hi I am looking to sublease my shared spot(customised with a partition, feels like a private room) at Lorenzo near USC in Los Angeles. Rent: $600 (including utilities, negotiable) 🌐 The Lorenzo, 325 W Adams Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 📅 Availability: Till September 30 2026 Quick Highlights: Apartment is already set up (Room divider, Study table with chair , unused mattress , organisers , bed frame and study lamp) and ready to move-in ! Place already has all supplies, such as utensils, cleaning tools etc. 📍 All utilities included (Gas, Water, Sewer, Trash, Electricity, Wifi) 📍 Spacious, Fully equipped kitchen 📍 Walk-in closet, Free laundry in-apartment 📍 AC & Heater 📍 Easy Commute: Shuttle to and from campus every 20 mins 📍 Metro station outside the apartment (Both train and bus) 📍 Unlimited Coffee and Hot Chocolate 📍 Swimming pool and Jacuzzi 📍 Basketball court, Table tennis, Volleyball court 📍 Food court with sitting arrangements 📍 Libraries and study spaces with monitors 📍 Fully equipped 3-floor gym 📍 24-hour security guards and surveillance cameras 📍 Bi-weekly shuttle to Ralphs Supermarket Feel free to reach out!

Comment by yun2yun2: Hi! I’m subleasing my master bedroom near USC (5-min walk to USC (free Lyft zone) ) since I’m graduating. Can fit at least 2 people, $1800/month with parking. Late April–July 31. DM me!

Comment by zhcrossing: has anyone had experience with mosaic student housing?

Comment by blueberry1237: Hi! I help manage a few smaller apartment buildings a short drive from campus and we currently have studios and bachelor units available ($1,345–$1,475). They’re not walking distance, but a lot of students choose them because: • It’s quieter than living right next to campus • Easier street parking • More privacy than shared housing • Simple lease terms If anyone’s looking for a solo space instead of roommates, feel free to DM me and I can share details or availability. Good luck with your search!

Reply by OnionMiddle5700 to blueberry1237: Hey I'm looking!

Comment by No-Excitement-4962: There's a brand new property that offers private bed/baths fully furnished. I haven't seen anything else like it, really fun design, off campus. It's only about a 15 minute walk from campus. I think it's called The Core, it's on 35th Pl. good luck.

Comment by mikayongjoo: Hello! I am looking for someone to take over my lease at Currie Hall. Details: • Private bedroom + private bathroom • 4 bed / 4 bath apartment (Phase 2: 4B/4B A layout) • Fully furnished • Modern kitchen & shared living space • Student-only housing • Near USC Keck campus with intercampus shuttle access to USC main campus Rent: $1,529/month Lease term: August 2026 - July 2027 Re-let will be completed officially through the Currie Hall leasing office. Great option for USC students who want their own room and bathroom in a shared apartment. Let me know if you are interested!
