Thread Title: Honestly, what is the area around USC like for a single female?

Original Post by Independent_Owl_4292: I know this has been asked a lot in the past, but I (22f) was recently accepted to USC Gould law school and I'm deciding whether to attend. I visited campus a couple weeks ago on a weekend and it was nice, but not what I was expecting. I guess I didn't expect it to feel so "densely urban"? I will likely be living alone if I move, and the housing options I've seen so far look either out of my budget or not the safest. I've thought about living in another area like Pasadena and commuting, but I've read some scary things about public transit for young single women. Just looking for honest opinions on the area surrounding campus---and Metro if you have thoughts on that as well. Thank you!!

Comment by AutoModerator: This is an automated message that is applied to every post. Just a general reminder, r/AskLosAngeles is a friendly question and answer subreddit for the region of Los Angeles, California. Please follow the subreddit rules , report content that does not follow rules, and feel empowered to contribute to the subreddit wiki or to ask questions of your fellow community members. The vibe should be helpful and friendly and the quality of your contribution makes a difference. Unhelpful comments are discouraged, rude interactions are bannable. Ambiguously scoped questions, requests, or self promotions are only allowed in the monthly "Open Discussion" pinned thread. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

Comment by LAD17Decoy: You will get your bike stolen when you are not riding it about once a year. Other than that, I have never known a single girl that was ever harmed outside of a frat house.

Reply by Independent_Owl_4292 to LAD17Decoy: Bike theft was a huge thing at my undergrad lol. Any stories/issues with biking in the area though? I was particularly alarmed to see so many reckless drivers/people on their phones while driving around campus, so I wasn't sure about biking to/from/around school

Reply by ray12370 to Independent_Owl_4292: Biking sucks in LA for the most part. Drivers view cyclists and walkers as an obstacle to get around instead of as humans. Anyone I see biking has balls of steel in my eyes.

Reply by LAD17Decoy to Independent_Owl_4292: Haha, I had 6 bikes stolen from me during Undergrad at USC. I once went to a bike store in the area and found my bike that had just been stolen. It was hilarious. Biking in the area is safe and nobody is going to actually steal your bike while you're riding it. The USC area is a safe place. Just don't go west of Vermont or south of campus. Also don't go east of the Galen Center. USC was the best experience of my life. You will feel safe if you just follow the rules I mentioned.

Reply by nasw500 to LAD17Decoy: Heh. Too funny. I, too, was both angry… yet strangely amused… when I finally noticed the patterns surrounding the periodic explosion of scads and scads of cheap bikes at the local shoppes. I wonder how many people, over the years, have bought and re-bought the same bike, at various prices, over the years…

Reply by mumpie to Independent_Owl_4292: Generally any busy street in LA is risky for bike riders. Make sure you have a helmet and a bright light. Some neighborhoods are worse than others because of how the streets are laid out and gutters forcing bikers out more into traffic. This is an old article but the advice is mostly still correct: https://lamag.com/outdoors/wipeout-las-worst-streets-for-cycling-according-to-one-busy-biker/ Some streets in LA are more like mini-freeways and are frankly dangerous for bikers (La Cienaga between La Tijera and Washington Blvd for example is 50mph but many drivers go over 60mph). Sort parts of LA have streets in particularly bad shape or gutters that will force you into traffic or risk wiping out.

Reply by nasw500 to mumpie: Lights can’t be stressed enough. It fair bloweth my mind, how many students ride unlit bikes, while wearing dark clothes… and while oft-staring at their ‘phones. 😵‍💫😵‍💫😵‍💫

Reply by earthtopaige1 to LAD17Decoy: I literally get email alerts about once a week about a USC student getting groped, what are you talking about

Reply by Seri0usbusiness to LAD17Decoy: 3/3 of my bikes were stolen during my time at USC. The last one was like a $50 Walmart bike too

Comment by saphire_gander: I would be more nervous of taking the metro at 6am every day than being around USC. The metro is ok and they've gotten better about security recently, but at the hours you'd need it there would definitely be a lot of leftover scaries hanging around.

Reply by Independent_Owl_4292 to saphire_gander: Good to know. Part of the issue is Idk when my classes would be, but from what I've heard somewhat early morning classes (where I might need to take the metro around 6 to be on time) are pretty standard

Reply by FriendOfDirutti to Independent_Owl_4292: You need a car in LA unless you are just going to stay around the school. Bonus points if you learn to ride a motorcycle and then there is no traffic anywhere for you!

Reply by nasw500 to saphire_gander: This is a very good point.

Comment by Lowl58: I’m a law student, not at USC due to cost reasons, but a Trojan alumni. The area is not that bad. It’s not pretty and it’s generally low income. But you aren’t going to get caught in gang shootings or anything. The area north of campus is obviously full of students. Again it’s not pretty but it has its charm. As a law student, time is your greatest ally. Having a short 20 minute walk to class will be a massive boon as you juggle your classes. USC campus is very flat so any sort of wheels will get you to class in 10 minutes from north of campus. If USC aligns with your goals, I wouldn’t let the area deter you at all. You will be in the same boat as tens of thousands of others. I will say that the crime reports we got were very rarely violent. It was mostly minor property crime. Which happens in any city. Gotta be vigilant with your stuff. For more serious crimes like burglary, it was usually people leaving windows or doors obviously open or unlocked. Not victim blaming, but there weren’t any break ins as far as I can remember. I will say that there are weird teens on bikes who sometimes do drive by gropings. Wish that weren’t the case, but it happens. Unlikely to happen to you, but oddly a thing. Sexual assault or violent crimes were very rare. About as often as you’d expect in a student community of 50,000. Overall, I wouldn’t let it deter you. It’s not as bad as it’s made out to be. The reputation often comes from UCLA grads or rich suburbanites in an area with 2 million dollar houses. I can send you recommendations for areas. If you have questions, let me know.

Comment by Mammoth_Marsupial_26: The school is well run. You will spend a lot of time in the library so just get a place near campus.

Reply by LAD17Decoy to Mammoth_Marsupial_26: Best advice here. I lived at Leavy. I was there more than at my house

Reply by Rebelgecko to Mammoth_Marsupial_26: The school is well run I mean, the school is broke after paying the price for past mismanagement

Reply by Mammoth_Marsupial_26 to Rebelgecko: Law schools and the professional schools are run very independently.

Reply by Rebelgecko to Mammoth_Marsupial_26: Guess they didn't learn their lesson from Puliafito

Comment by user_15427: Don’t commute. USC is in a not so great area of the city. Your ideal options are living as close to campus as possible or in DTLA.

Reply by Independent_Owl_4292 to user_15427: So you wouldn't recommend commuting from a safer part of the city to avoid living in that area? Also, wouldn't I have to commute technically by living in DTLA?

Reply by user_15427 to Independent_Owl_4292: You would be commuting technically but the Campus is very close to DTLA. It’s the easiest commute you’d have.

Reply by cranberrydudz to Independent_Owl_4292: You’ll either want to live close to usc or in dtla. Commuting takes a lot out of your life with how bad traffic is.

Reply by Zestyclose-Height-36 to Independent_Owl_4292: if you commute, buy an on campus parking pass, do not try to find street parking.

Comment by Moldy_Slice_of_Bread: The area around USC, especially the area bounded by Expo-Fig-Adams-Vermont, is a bubble. Very safe by LA standards, day and night. The school has private security that patrols this neighborhood, and there is a lot of activity at all hours. If you are going to live close to campus, live within that perimeter and you’ll be fine.

Comment by No-Organization-2314: Feel free to DM me. Gould ‘23 alumna and ‘19 undergrad. Lived on campus for undergrad, commuted from the valley for law. There’s some good places on campus/in the bubble. Though I will say most people lived in DTLA or Culver City my year, we were also starting fall of 2020 so virtual. 1L’s have a dorm that’s near campus, so you have time to figure out where to live. As long as you live in the bubble, USC has the Yellowjackets that are stationed in an area around campus, plus the blue light system. Depending on what you want to do, I can’t recommend Gould enough. It can open doors that other schools just don’t do. The bar pass rate, the job placement rate, the ability to interview with Big Law is just something you don’t get at other schools. And the Trojan Mafia is unreal.

Comment by CaliforniaSun77: I commute to USC daily. The area around campus is safe but like any urban area near a school, you need to pay attention. Crime around campus is because it's a school and college students make easier targets for petty theft. USC does have special housing for JDs, which might be a good option for your first year until you get an idea of where you want to live. If you do commute, A line to E line is super easy and during normal commuting hours is safe enough to use your laptop. It can get a little sketchy late at night but honestly if you're going between USC and Pasadena it's fine.

Comment by nasw500: It’s not perfect, but it’s also much better now than its lingering reputation might suggest. I lived in North University Park for over 26 years (and am still near it). In the ‘90s, I lived next door to a house that had been a crack house the year or two before and was advised to NEVER go down streets like Orchard or Menlo after sunset. Now that former crack house is an expensive luxury rental, and Orchard and Menlo are similarly “nice” and overpriced. The area got markedly better as more Chinese and Indian money started gushing in, AND after USC hired a “third layer” of security following a rough period in the late ‘00s. A rough period not entirely driven by “locals on student” violence, either. Is it Rodeo Drive now? No. Though it’s perhaps worth noting that at least some of the area’s crime is committed by people who shop there (spoiled and well-heeled legacy students). Bad stuff can still happen (like it can anywhere). It’s maybe a tad ironic that the “developer wars” of the past several years (Moxie vs Orion vs Nova vs StuHo, and so forth) have made for nicer amenities… but also more of the stereotypical “arrogant party bro” types moving into a broader swathe of the neighbourhood. And, as I’ve mentioned, they drive a lot of the crime stats there. I’ll admit, it does actually “feel” slightly less pleasant now than it did right before the outbreak (2020). I think that’s due partly to things like more streetlights regularly being out (due to wire thefts AS WELL AS insufficient numbers of students taking part in civic life and actually filing complaints with the city); as well as that weird angry aggression that so many people seem to have developed since the first “lockdown”. Also, this can’t be overstated: A lot of the accidents and incidents that occur there stem from students walking/biking/scootering at night with their noses glued to their smartphones. They either don’t notice someone rolling up on them; or they walk into someone and fight ensues. Or they aren’t seen by car users who are themselves often staring at a ‘phone. I once nearly hit a student who was, I kid you not, bicycling in the wrong direction, at night, on a bike with no lights, on that dark (due to lots of trees) area near 27th and Orchard. They were also dressed entirely in black… and (I’m sure you guessed where this was going) they were staring at their smartphone. They zipped around that corner and almost slammed right into my car! And before anyone brings up the (heartbreaking and hideous) assault and murder of Xinran Ji (who was a friend of acquaintances of mine) in 2015, it should be remembered that he was attacked at a spot that normally had one of USC’s “third layer” guards. The school had opted to not use them in the summer, to save money. That policy was changed soon after. …

Comment by yellowrose430: I go to Gould and live near the school! I haven’t had any issues and walk to school everyday, but I definitely second what the other commenters are saying about the bikes.

Comment by sureokright: I would recommend getting a car not even for school solely, but for your wants and needs. LA is severely lacking in walkability and public transportation. You’ll wanna hit the beach or check out restaurants with friends, and not having a car will be a headache. Also Pasadena is great. Safe and good amount of things to do here. Would be an easy commute to SC.

Reply by Independent_Owl_4292 to sureokright: I will have a car no matter whether I commute or not so no worries there, it's just the commute times I'm worried about

Reply by [deleted] to sureokright: True, but would you really want to rely on the expo if you’re in a rigorous law program?

Reply by sureokright to [deleted]: True, but would you really want to rely on the expo if you’re in a rigorous law program?

Comment by No_Ebb1052: Live in Culver City and take the train in

Comment by Boysenberry: The campus itself is very safe, and if you have a high level of situational awareness and good enough instincts to turn around and take a different route if the vibes are off, the surrounding area is okay. It's not a great place to walk alone after dark, but you'll bond with your law school cohort and you should be able to find people to accompany you if you need to walk to transit. I'd recommend living near campus though, because transit does get sketchy after dark and you will be studying late a lot in law school. Best to just either get a car and find people to walk with you to the parking lot or budget for Uber/Lyft when you need to get to/from campus after dark and find people to wait with you for your ride. You'll get used to it quickly, it's just city living, it's not an exceptionally bad area or anything. And in the few blocks directly around campus there are extra law enforcement patrols, it's called the "USC bubble" for a reason.

Comment by LoftCats: This is going to come down to your budget for place to live. The area surrounding campus is perfectly fine. There’s a range though from new build apartments to older homes. And whether you’re getting roommates or not. Which may well be a better choice. The next closest area you can drive or take the metro from the South Park and Financial District areas of Downtown. Very walkable with access to groceries, places to eat and mostly older professionals and some younger students. Not sure where you’re from but some of this will just come from preference and what your budget allows. LA is safe and with a little awareness hundreds of thousands of people live and work around campus and Downtown. Don’t listen to people who tell you USC and Downtown are scary as that’s a very outdated opinion of what’s a big metro area.

Comment by TheSwedishEagle: On campus housing?

Comment by JC2535: I would be wary of walking around the surrounding area alone after sundown. I’m sure there are parts that are safer than I’m aware of, but check the crime stats map online to see actual incidents and get a sense of where they happen. Good luck!

Comment by BeccaM1112: Always be careful. Stay alert and don't be on your phone.

Comment by ba_an: Public transportation is more disturbing than unsafe. If you take it during peak hours, it's fine. Avoid being alone at night, obviously. Koreatown is an easy bus ride away and more affordable, though more gritty, than Pasadena.

Comment by Gatodeluna: It’s infamously not a safe area in general. If you insist on living in the neighborhood very close to campus, you very likely will not feel safe. Yes, people live there and if they scuttle and scurry they can get by, but ‘living’, not so much. There are muggings, SAs and murders. Every day, all day? No - but often enough that the area is well known for it.

Comment by [deleted]: It’s also super block by block. Some blocks are totally fine, some are pretty sketchy. I live a couple miles away in Leimert Park, and sometimes I’ll run down to USC. Campus/Expo Park generally are safe, there are definitely streets I avoid. A lot of it is “I’m fine alone during the day but wouldn’t walk around alone at night” as a small white chick.

Reply by michiness to [deleted]: It’s also super block by block. Some blocks are totally fine, some are pretty sketchy. I live a couple miles away in Leimert Park, and sometimes I’ll run down to USC. Campus/Expo Park generally are safe, there are definitely streets I avoid. A lot of it is “I’m fine alone during the day but wouldn’t walk around alone at night” as a small white chick.

Comment by Powwerrs: I’ve lived around the area before , it isn’t bad, it has its spots where you can see it isn’t the best, and other spots where it’s like really taken care of and usc “guards” around. But overall I wouldn’t say it’s dangerous , just some sketchy spots, but other than that , the best is the view at night when you see downtown LA lit up lol. Metro is good for transport but it can be active with all the homelessness on it constantly. Pasadena would probably be more out your budget too since more in a “rich” area. You should look into silver lake area at least , avoid Koreatown

Comment by Luvtahoe: The safest—by far— option is to live in South Pasadena or Pasadena and commute by car.

Reply by NyxHemera45 to Luvtahoe: Idk anyone that is a student that can afford South Pasadena.

Comment by Difficult_Ladder369: University of south Central. Stay west of the 110 and east of Vermont. North of MLK down to Adams

Comment by EnvironmentalCar7585: I remember one time at University of South Central, trying to stop a girl being jumped by other girls and my buddy and I were attacked by another group of guys telling us to mind our own business and GTFO. You’ll be safe as long as safe choices are made.

Comment by iiLeeDz: If you went to UCLA instead you wouldn't have this issue at all lol

Reply by Independent_Owl_4292 to iiLeeDz: didn't get in :/

Comment by snizzrizz: Not great

Reply by LoftCats to snizzrizz: What are you basing this on?

Reply by snizzrizz to LoftCats: Living there

Reply by LoftCats to snizzrizz: You’re going to SC and live in South LA? What do you mean by not great?

Comment by Aromatic_Ad_7238: It's rough. Daytime your fine. Walking two blocks to off campus facilities they have security posted. I do alot of work at some major universities and the overall environment at US is less than desirable.

Comment by Zestyclose-Height-36: A woman I know was raped on a lawn at 11pm on a weeknight three blocks from the campus. would recc living in Pasadena or Burbank and paying for an on campus parking pass for your car to avoid the immediate area.

Reply by [deleted] to Zestyclose-Height-36: Exactly. Much, if not most, if the sexual assaults in the North University Park area happen either on or near The Row (and are thus “student upon student” crimes). Indeed, one of the reasons the area is regarded as high crime is because all the crime from expo park/stadium events (post game fights; pickpocketing; smash and grabs) AND all student-related crime (rape, vandalism, fraternity rumbles) get fed into the police crime-stat computer.

Reply by nasw500 to [deleted]: Exactly. Much, if not most, if the sexual assaults in the North University Park area happen either on or near The Row (and are thus “student upon student” crimes). Indeed, one of the reasons the area is regarded as high crime is because all the crime from expo park/stadium events (post game fights; pickpocketing; smash and grabs) AND all student-related crime (rape, vandalism, fraternity rumbles) get fed into the police crime-stat computer.

Comment by TonyTale: you will be robbed whether it's a bike, car or a stickup it will happen. hopefully not worse I wouldn't speak that into existence but my advice is to find another place to live. do not take public transit either. get a car live in Pasadena

Comment by CranberryOk8409: Long story short my friend almost got hit by a stray bullet a few years ago

Comment by tracyinge: I would look at your other choices for law school. Housing is not affordable around here and neither is anything else. Well, the bus is pretty cheap so there's that. Pasadena is just as pricey. When you visited you probably got a fairly rosy picture of the neighborhood. Living there for years is a different reality. If it already feels meh to you it's not going to get much better. Plus with the Olympics coming in two years you're gonna be subjected to construction and road closures etc your whole 2nd year in the city. Ain't nobody got time for that if you've got other good options. https://studentlife.usc.edu/trojan-tea-time/housing-is-not-for-the-weak/ https://www.trojans360.com/trojans360posts/a-review-of-usc-off-campus-housing-options https://www.facebook.com/groups/7255891764494844/posts/9325340434216623/

Reply by zross312 to tracyinge: Nonsense - USC Gould is a great school (though my partner is about to graduate from UCLA Law), and there’s plenty of great places to live within reasonable commuting range of it (my sister went to USC undergrad).

Reply by Independent_Owl_4292 to tracyinge: Interesting point about the Olympics. Yeah, this is why I'm asking on here...I was there on a Saturday and didn't even stay in LA overnight, just drove back home, plus I think it was the start of Spring break, so idk how representative my brief visit was of day to day life. Are you/were you a student there? If yes I can PM

Comment by mattisfunny: The closer to SC the better- if the place is affordable you’ll get stabbed

Comment by Makaveli_10: No, please don't do it. That's literally South Central; that's as dangerous as it gets.

Reply by LoftCats to Makaveli_10: What are you basing this on? It hasn’t even been called that for over 20 years.

Comment by Freddy-Philmore: Fake account. Who posts these things? It's hilarious but so many people fall for it. if you were real you'd go to a USC site or one for law students... not a sub with random venting about LA half of whom are fake magas. if youre real I hope you get sane advice LA is great.

Comment by Any_West_926: Get a car and live in South Pasadena that’s next to the 110 freeway. You’ll love it there.

Reply by LoftCats to Any_West_926: How many students can afford South Pasadena and have the time for that commute? If they had that budget they could live in a high rise in South Park or nice parts of Downtown with a short commute or train ride to campus.

Reply by Any_West_926 to LoftCats: There are a lot of old apartments in the city. She can at least check it out. I used to live in South Pasadena and the 110 freeway is convenient. Maybe she would change her mind and consider having roommates, although she said she doesn’t want them. She’s a single female who’ll be living alone. I wouldn’t live near USC alone.

Comment by geezus1516: Join a gang

Comment by [deleted]: No public transit because of safety issues? I heard that lots of students commute from Palms; when I visited I started driving that way to check it out and not only did it take like forty minutes but the areas I drove through looked pretty bad. I thought about commuting from somewhere near Los Feliz too, but it took me an hour to drive there from campus! Idk if that was unusual traffic for a Saturday but it definitely didn't make a 5-days-a-week commute look appealing.

Reply by Independent_Owl_4292 to [deleted]: No public transit because of safety issues? I heard that lots of students commute from Palms; when I visited I started driving that way to check it out and not only did it take like forty minutes but the areas I drove through looked pretty bad. I thought about commuting from somewhere near Los Feliz too, but it took me an hour to drive there from campus! Idk if that was unusual traffic for a Saturday but it definitely didn't make a 5-days-a-week commute look appealing.

Reply by [deleted] to Independent_Owl_4292: I see people with their laptops on the A and E lines all the time. It's safe, only issue is not a ton of space so it can be cramped.

Reply by CaliforniaSun77 to [deleted]: I see people with their laptops on the A and E lines all the time. It's safe, only issue is not a ton of space so it can be cramped.
