Thread Title: Off Campus Housing

Original Post by Optimal-Yak-8975: hi everyone, i’m looking into my options for off campus housing as it is not guaranteed for transfer students. Currently i am eyeing The Hub LA Coliseum and Hub LA Figueroa, Icon Plaza and Gateway(even though it’s super expensive). I am not too interested in The Lorenzo bc it’s further away from Campus to walk. I know that if i rent a room in a house nearby would probably be cheaper but I think at least for the first year id rather live in these “student communities” where I might have a higher chance of making friends :) Any advice on where to go or steer clear of? lol. Thanks!

Comment by SeaworthinessQuiet73: My son lived at the Hub Coliseum his junior and senior years and really liked it. He was in the business school so it was a 10 minute walk and his roommate was in Dornsife. Plenty of food options and probably safer than the other end of Figueroa since there were people and police in the area during events. Building was well managed and he had no complaints in the 2 years he lived there.

Reply by Optimal-Yak-8975 to SeaworthinessQuiet73: thank you! i’m going to the business school too so that’s good

Reply by Ok-Reaction-6748 to SeaworthinessQuiet73: For people that are sensitive to sounds, being next to a major street is hard

Comment by Slow_Relationship170: Hey, its also worth looking at Tuscany and the Standard If you want more options (: The Standard is pretty cheap in comparison to the others because it's Brand new opening this Fall, and Tuscany is also not that expensive. Both are right next to the Hub Coliseum on Fig (left and right of it). I've heard Icon is good but it's really expensive and Management can suck. I've visited Gateway and it was nice but it's a real fortress with a million rooms and no balconies. They did have sun decks on the upper floor though which was nice. Study room and Gym was nice, and in addition they are opening a new outdoor Gym this Fall. I also have Tours planned for Tuscany, Standard, and The Hub so I'll probably see dor myself First.

Reply by Optimal-Yak-8975 to Slow_Relationship170: ohhh yeah the standard looks real nice 🙃 let’s keep in touch lol

Comment by LexLuther48: Would avoid Gateway. It’s on Fig (lots of police/fire truck activity), the amenities are bad (advertises a pool but it’s literally just a shallow splash zone), and infrastructure of the rooms are not great for the price. Lorenzo has a free shuttle that will bring you into campus and back, plus there is a free Lyft service after 7pm around USC (not saying you should go to Lorenzo since it’s also kind of rough, but still an option). Rest I don’t know as much but I’ve had friends live in both Gateway and Lorenzo and didn’t like it. Best of luck ✌️

Reply by Ok-Reaction-6748 to LexLuther48: Lorenzo has hecka roaches on the lower levels, and even though there are a bunch of pools, no one really uses them much 36 st/ 37th pl has some rooms for 930 to 1250, with marble countertops and flatscreens, pm me 🦋

Reply by Slow_Relationship170 to LexLuther48: Would avoid Gateway. It’s on Fig (lots of police/fire truck activity), the amenities are bad (advertises a pool but it’s literally just a shallow splash zone), and infrastructure of the rooms are not great for the price. When I visited the Pool was literally just a normal pool lol? Not saying there was anything special about it, but it was not that bad either. Also, they just renovated most apartments, which means that many of them are brand new with all the new stuff.

Reply by LexLuther48 to Slow_Relationship170: It’s a glorified 1-2ft deep pool. While it’s renovated, being on fig is not fun when you have a roster waking you up at 4am and police/fire trucks keeping you up till 2am. Most people I know hated gateway, and one of my friends gave up living there after a few months and started crashing my place.

Comment by bobthe1234567: out of hub, icon, and gateway, gateway is prolly worst option even though it's probably the cheapest; but at the same time, it's not too bad. lorenzo has a shuttle that can take u from and to campus, but i'd still avoid lorenzo just cuz of the horror stories

Reply by Optimal-Yak-8975 to bobthe1234567: wait gateway is the CHEAPEST 🫪 holy shit

Reply by bobthe1234567 to Optimal-Yak-8975: yes, I believe if u rent through gateway directly, it's the cheapest out of the options u mentioned (other than lorenzo)

Comment by Content_Award_3202: same boat here ..I am looking for off-campus housing as a transfer student. Trying to balance close to campus for safety and convenience reasons and have considered Gateway since it’s the most convenient, but I really liked. the Hub for the way it’s managed, etc. But I’m not thrilled about that location as much …maybe it’s just because i had a drugged out guy with a blanket over his head follow me partway to the building last week, but I think that’s not uncommon around USC. i like the area near the village on the other side.. a lot of good places they are taken, but there’s a place called The Tower which looks interesting. I am looking for female roommate who might want to share a place with ideally private bedrooms and bathrooms .

Reply by Awkward_Honeydew_301 to Content_Award_3202: Wait I’m looking into the hub, is the surrounding location that bad? That’s kind of deterring

Reply by owochase to Awkward_Honeydew_301: The further north you get the less it feels like all students around you but it’s not worse than the rest of the area around USC

Reply by Content_Award_3202 to Awkward_Honeydew_301: well pretty much any area outside of campus is going to be somewhat sketch..i actuallly don’t think it’s that bad and a lot of people really like the Hub. It is just south of exposition ..which is supposedly dividing line . i have been told repeatedly dont go south of the coliseum. there are a lot of shops under the hub. I wasn’t crazy about crossing exposition every day but it’s actually pretty close to campus . if you can’t visit do a google earth search .The hub itself has the best security i have seen.

Reply by Ok-Reaction-6748 to Content_Award_3202: Messaged you, my friend needs a female roommate

Comment by owochase: Idk where you got gateway being expensive from, it’s by far the cheapest on your list.

Comment by Ch8ngus: All these people have no idea what they’re talking about. Hub Figueroa is by far the nicest and most social of all of the options you listed. Full of sophomores and juniors, i knew a lot transfers that lived there this past year and loved it, and it has the most people in Greek life if thats ur typa thing.

Comment by [deleted]: I don’t think landlords are supposed to shill out advertisements, except for designated threads , just fyi

Reply by Ok-Reaction-6748 to [deleted]: I don’t think landlords are supposed to shill out advertisements, except for designated threads , just fyi
