Thread Title: Best off-campus housing options for International/Transfer students!

Original Post by Slow_Relationship170: Heyyy USC sub, I'm an incoming international sophomore transfer from Portugal! (: I know someone else already posted about this but it wasnt really helpful. Does anyone have any Insights in what the best off-campus housing options are currently? The only post about this from 5 years ago is kind of contradictory with what I heard elsewhere. Any Help is appreciated!!🙇🏽‍♀️🙏🏽

Comment by 4GIFs: Make someone an offer in the pinned sticky thread, you can find deals. For companies, Huboncampus and alumnimgt have good reviews. kvillage does monthly if you want to research the area in person before committing to a year.

Comment by Ok-Reaction-6748: My bro Yadong is a hecka cool international student, I can put yall in contact if you want I like our building, they made it really easy to add him as a roommate when he was overseas (walked him through the space on FaceTime, gave him good discounts, hopped on zoom calls with his parents)

Comment by owochase: It really depends what you want. Gateway is pretty cheap relatively and close to campus. Shrine is also right there but more expensive I think. Assuming you’re like most international students and price is not much of a consideration, you may want to opt for a more luxury apartment place like the Hub or the Lorenzo. Everyone I know that can afford to live in those buildings loves them There’s a ton of smaller apartment style buildings all around that I don’t really know much about (Google will). Besides that they are house style places where you could rent a room but I think that is more for once you have a group of friends or whatever who all want to be in one place (not 100%, I don’t live in one). In terms of location you want to be north of campus imo. I would say Adam’s is the furthest north you should go (even that ~15 min walk too much for me).

Reply by Slow_Relationship170 to owochase: In terms of location you want to be north of campus imo. I would say Adam’s is the furthest north you should go (even that ~15 min walk too much for me). I was looking at things on Fig like Tuscany/Icon/Hub, would you say North like Gateway is better? (: i appreciate the Insight!!

Reply by owochase to Slow_Relationship170: Personally I would say north like gateway or hub on fig (not Los Angeles coliseum hub) is better. Closer to the village, most bars, most people, etc. That area by the Tuscany apartments is nice though, just be prepared to be making that walk to the village and up fig quite often (it’s rly not that bad I’m just lazy lol). That being said, if you’re someone who enjoys nature like myself, being near expo park and the Rose garden this year (lived by Taco Bell on Vermont — don’t recommend) was quite nice as the USC area is lacking in parks besides that.

Comment by [deleted]: Great building and fantastic management. Best deal on quality building close to campus.

Reply by No_Teaching7127 to [deleted]: Great building and fantastic management. Best deal on quality building close to campus.
