Thread Title: Does anyone live in an off campus housing that they actually like

Original Post by Low-Appearance4875: I stg every single time I hear about a place, I look it up on this subreddit and everybody and their mother has a story about how the landlord shot their dog or licked their toes while they slept or something. Does anyone live in a place that’s not actually a nightmare to live in? Preferably not too far from campus and doesn’t cost 10k a month for a studio. I do realize I’m lowkey asking for a lot here though.

Comment by Fine_Push_955: Renting from ppl >>> renting from companies

Comment by jenbcnightlynews: I actually happen to like the place I’m at so far (Parq on Portland by StuHo). The managers are pretty communicative and the property is nice plus they throw cute little resident events (for multiple properties) every once in a while. Have yet to have a real issue w the place or the people running it. This is coming from someone who spent the previous year with an AWFUL leasing company- you can find good ones!!

Reply by Low-Appearance4875 to jenbcnightlynews: Friend I just looked it up on here and this is what they’re saying

Reply by jenbcnightlynews to Low-Appearance4875: HELP imma say this is 3yrs old and the gate they’re talking about usually isn’t open so i think we’re good on that - our package area has shit lying around all the time so my guess is no ones come to steal them

Comment by Abject-Asparagus2060: I rented a room in a privately owned house about a mile off campus my first two years which I loved. One of those giant craftsman houses which was so beautiful. It had its issues which made me eventually leave, and later it got sold unfortunately. But for a while I was really happy with it. I found it on Craigslist and it was like $800/month. Corporate owned housing def poses its issues, but so can private ownership (possibility for weirdos or neglect) but private ownership is pretty easy to get out of if it’s not working out, and tends to be cheaper. Broaden your scope around the neighborhoods, this place was a little further than a lot of people think to search but still walkable. Companies seem to have bought up everything in the immediate vicinity. Also consider places within bus distance, Ktown has a lot of reasonably priced options and it’s easy to get to campus from there.

Comment by rlttgb: i live in a property owned by trojan buildings and i love it! there’s 3 landlords that are very responsive to any issues, and they do maintenance by their own hands if they can, and they know my name even though ive only talked to them a handful of times! its def expensive (i live in a 1b1b for 2k a month, i think the most bedrooms they go is 2b2b?), but a 1b1b was necessary for me, plus there’s free parking and they rent an in and out truck during finals. really nice and safe community but i’m rerenting with them next year because they’re cheaper than other 1b1bs in our area (somehow)

Reply by Mindless-Bit-5666 to rlttgb: what property is that? i’m interested in off campus housing but it seems that all the options are generally gateway but it’s rather expensive…

Reply by rlttgb to Mindless-Bit-5666: would rather not dox myself LOL but one of their properties on the end of ellendale! as far as i know all 3 landlords oversee all of the 5-6 buildings they own, and i just checked their website and everything is 2k for a 1b1b (1.7k ish per bedroom in a 2b2b) for every abt every building except their newer ones on shrine yeah apartments like gateway/lorenzo/jasper/hub are helllllaaaa expensive and it’s so crazy that studios can go for like 2.5-3k a MONTH with them?? 2k a month is still pretty steep, but at USC i paid 1.7k for a 1b2p in the village.. and to not have your own roommate 300 dollars is a jump worth it for me

Reply by Ok-Reaction-6748 to Mindless-Bit-5666: Nice buildings, clean, quick response times….thats at CBM, they got me and my roommates right Fairly cost efficient, rooms are nice and clean and modern…. 2k a month sounds insane, CBM is more affordable I think

Comment by bobthe1234567: just live north of campus before adams

Comment by [deleted]: Does Tuscany Apartments count?

Comment by SeaworthinessQuiet73: Son lived in the Hub Coliseum for 2 years and really liked it. No issues and he got his deposit back too. Building was nicely maintained and they didn’t raise the rent year 2.

Comment by brendandank: I’m with mosaic student housing and I’m absolutely loving it so far! The management is swift in addressing my maintenance requests and rent is $900/mo for me. I’m in a five bedroom house less than a mile away from campus. The other rooms are going for $700ish/mo.

Reply by SadEmotion8310 to brendandank: my thing is they're unfurnished for the most part, do you know of any houses that come furnished?

Reply by brendandank to SadEmotion8310: I don’t :/ I think I only toured two of the properties. But the thing is, the amount that you would spend on furnishing your room is still less than what you would be paying at many of the other options long term (and you’d be walking away with things that you actually own). I just bought a quality futon on FB marketplace for like $150 and it is perfect for me. My spot also has a fully furnished living room.

Comment by Useful_Calendar845: Hi! I am looking for someone to take over my lease ASAP starting in January at University Gateway Apartments. The apartment is a 2 bedroom 2 bath space and the room I am subleasing already has one other girl in it. Each room has its own bathroom. The apartment comes fully furnished. Gateway has its own gym, study rooms, laundry units on each floor, and a pool. It's a 5 min walk from campus and 5 mins from the village. Please reach out to me ASAP if interested. Girls only please. Rent is 1290.

Comment by Even_Luck8891: hi! i’m leasing my room in a 2b2b apartment at the Shrine Collection ASAP. it’s a 5 min walk from campus & the village and super close to restaurants + greek row. there are 2 other girls living in the other room but you’ll have a bedroom and bathroom all to yourself. it can be either a single ($2000) or a double ($1150 each). dm me if interested.

Comment by blueberry1237: Hi! I help manage a few smaller apartment buildings a short drive from campus and we currently have studios and bachelor units available ($1,345–$1,475). They’re not walking distance, but a lot of students choose them because: • It’s quieter than living right next to campus • Easier street parking • More privacy than shared housing • Simple lease terms If anyone’s looking for a solo space instead of roommates, feel free to DM me and I can share details or availability. Good luck with your search!

Reply by Kucchanu2018 to blueberry1237: Hi could you please send me details? Thank you

Comment by Ok-Reaction-6748: I live in a good spot half mile from campus— at “community builders management” It’s nice and clean, with heaters and AC for each room that are very efficient, which is nice because I can keep a certain temperature even if my roommates prefer another temp average response time for fixing things is 19 hours It’s funny because the big fancy new buildings (like Moo) are actually 11 kids in one unit with 11 baths— super noisy And then I heard that at Moo basically everyone lost their security deposit. Online reports talk about bedbugs , roaches. My main point— ask around if the people you can rent from are honorable people , who fix things quick These super corporations just try to look as nice as possible while being as shitty as possible. Funny enough.

Comment by alashia_: $1499– Private Room & Private In room Bathroom in 3x3 at The Lorenzo (Aug 2026–July 2027 Lease) This is for ONE bed in a private room within a 3 Bed / 3 Bath apartment at The Lorenzo. Rent is just $1499/month + $ 90 utilities — extremely affordable for everything included. Fully furnished apartment, private bathroom access, modern kitchen, in-unit laundry, and a spacious living area. Resort-style pools, massive fitness center, study lounges, theater room, sports courts, 24-hour security, and countless other amenities. The community is vibrant, social, and full of energy. They also host Tasty Tuesdays and Thirsty Thursdays with free food and resident events throughout the year. Affordable rent. Unmatched amenities. Prime social atmosphere. Message me if interested.

Comment by IQ1776: Does anyone have any experience with H C Rentals? They post in different Facebook groups (see below), the price for 1 room close to campus (minutes away) is around $900-950 with everything included, they only have a Facebook page and they say that their website is under construction. Upon requesting a tour, they say that you have to fill in the application first, which they send you through Facebook Messenger and you have to pay the application fee of $60 with the explanation that they also have to do a background check first, and the application fee is refundable if your not deemed a prospective tenant. Thanks in advance. 1. https://www.facebook.com/groups/1815525892212162/search/?q=H%20C%20Rentals 2. https://www.facebook.com/groups/3624772284409021/search/?q=H%20C%20Rentals 3. https://www.facebook.com/groups/2276346809256403/search/?q=H%20C%20Rentals Their Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/groups/3624772284409021/user/61576226462336/

Comment by Glittering_Aioli6195: Highly recommend places on Ellendale, Menlo area as those places tend to be more privately owned

Comment by emmarandoee: hi! I have a family friend who has a basically empty apartment and is a 3 min drive away from campus! It’s 1 min South from expo park, and ik neighborhoods tend to get more “dangerous” going more south, but it’s right at the beginning of that and it’s relatively safe. the street itself is very family friendly so basically no college students, maybe just one house with college students? rent would be around $750/month and it would be a shared bathroom, kitchen and living room. There’s 3 rooms(1 is occupied by a really sweet older lady who’s hardly there lol) but 2 vacant rooms. It has WiFi, a rlly big tv, appliances and what not. There is street parking so yeah! It’s definitely not a luxurious as super fancy student housing apartments, but it’s genuinely pretty nice for the price! So if you really have a tight budget and this price is good for u, lmk! The apartment has a ring camera for the front, and the owners know everyone on the whole block so they like to keep a close eye of everything too for safety reasons! Obviously though past 11pm it can get “dangerous” to walk alone at night but for the most part this street only has families so it’s pretty safe! Obviously I’ll go more into depth but if you know someone, they can lmk and I’ll give them an even better explanation than js this😭
